# Research Interests
***
## *Sediment diagenesis and its effect on physical properties*

***
## *Friction experiment for understanding subdcution zone earthquakes*
Friction of rock is a fundamental process for an earthquake. Knowing how a rock behaves under the in-situ temperature-pressure condition is critically important to understand the seismic activities. I focus on a convergent margin like SW Japan. Serpentinite, generated by the hydration process of mantle materials due to the slab-derived water, is known to control seismic activities around the down-dip limit of seismogenic zone. Based on friction experiment, I found that brucite, one of main minerals in serpentinite, is the only mineral which shows both weak and unstable friction under a low effective normal stress condition. This result suggests that brucite could contribute to nucleate slow earthquake in the mantle wedge where high pore pressure condition is inferred by seismological observations. Recently, I am also focusing on the deformation processes at the shallow part of accretionary prism, and at the depth of seismogenic zone.

See also:
- **Hanaya Okuda**, Ikuo Katayama, Hiroshi Sakuma, & Kenji Kawai (in review). Effect of normal stress on the friction of brucite: Application to slow earthquake in the mantle wedge. *Solid Earth*. Preprint is available on *Solid Earth Discussion* <a href="https://se.copernicus.org/preprints/se-2020-144/" target="_blank">doi:10.5194/se-2020-144</a>.

***
## *Physics behind mineral-dependent friction*
Mechanisms that control frictional properties of materials are not yet fully understood despite their importance for understanding fault behavior. Especially, sheet-structure minerals, like clay minerals, should be focused because they are often found in natural faults and thought to contribute to large earthquakes. In our paper, we found that the atomic-scale interlayer friction and yield strength control the macroscopic friction coefficient of sheet-structure minerals.

See also:
- **Hanaya Okuda**, Kenji Kawai, & Hiroshi Sakuma (2019). First‐principles Investigation of Frictional Characteristics of Brucite: An Application to Its Macroscopic Frictional Characteristics. *Journal of Geophysical Reserach: Solid Earth*, 124(10), 10423-10443. 
<a href="https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1029/2019JB017740" target="_blank">doi:10.1029/2019JB017740</a>

